235
Case Study
14.6
CASE STUDY AND CASE WORK
The terms case study and case work are often used in the social research.  It is
essential here to know the distinction between these two terms.  Case study refers
to the intensive investigation of a particular unit where as case work relates to the
developmental and adjustmental procedure that follows diagnosis.  Of course, these
two terms are different facets of the same approach to problems, and as such are
interrelated and essentially complementary.  As M H Gopal says Case study is often
understood as a method and sometimes as technique, and sometimes as an ‘approach’
to a social reality and occasionally, a mode of organising data in terms of some
chosen units.  He further states that it is infact a technique which considers all
pertinent aspects of a situation, employing as the unit of study –an individual, institution
or group, and intensively investigating it.
14.7
CASE STUDY AND OTHER METHODS
Case Study as a method of research has a potential to stand along with other
methods of research. It was George Lundburg who called it futile to consider
superiority or inferiority of different methods of research.  He holds the view that
“each has its place, and for a particular purpose, or at a particular stage of investigation,
is best.”  In his opinion “Any method which achieves its purpose is valid for that
purpose.”
Scholars have agreed that there is much the same connection between case study
and statistical method.  They are interdependent and complementary.  In some areas
of investigation especially when prediction must be made quickly, statistical techniques
have to replace case study.  Sometimes, case studies may supply the raw data for
latter statistical study.  When an overall generic picture of a problem is needed case
study steps in and statistical tools become its handmaid for interpreting and analysing
the data.
One of the noted Social Scientist states that, “Critical or rigorous statistics grew out
of one form of Case Study, that of the general Survey.”  Thus according to him, the
general survey, one form of survey method is, but a type of case study.  In fact the
interview Schedule used to collect the data, sufficiently complete and detail, as well
as arrayed with respect to some degree of unity is in a sense a case study.  Therefore,
case study method has a close relationship with survey method.
Case study, as a method of research, frequently employs more techniques than one.
Thus for tracing the developmental process, it makes use of the historical method,
wherever factual picture is needed it uses the descriptive method and it also relies
on questionnaire, checklist and rating scales etc., to gather the data, and it looks to
statistics at the classification and analysis stages.  Even in the context of choosing the
units for case study, the out come of the earlier case studies and the final processing
and analysis of the material is to be treated by statistics.  Thus, the case study has
to go to statistics if its data are to reveal frequencies, types, trends, uniformities and
patterns.
L.L. Bernard a noted authority in social science research expresses the view that “
the case method corresponds roughly to the laboratory experiment, except, that the
social case describes situations as they are, while the laboratory case describes
conditions under artificial controls.  Therefore it can be concluded that case study
is the first step in scientific method and leads directly into statistical, method forming
