232
Research Methods
conclusions.  According to Yin (1994), the research design in case study contains the
following component parts:
1)
A study’s questions in terms of who, what, where, how and why;
These components are argued to provide a clue to the type of research strategy,
which can be used in case study research.
2)
Its propositions, (if any);
Study propositions help to direct research attention to matters that ought to be
examined closely.  This will guide the research in the right direction by providing
further dues to what data to collect and from where data may be obtained.
3)
Its unit of analysis;
This helps to define what the ‘case’ is and further focuses on a precise research
question.
4)
The logic linking of data to the propositions ‘pattern-matching approach’; and
This is used for case study.  This approach helps in putting together several
pieces of information from the same case and relating to the some theoretical
proposition.
5)
The criteria for interpreting the findings;
There is no precise way of interpreting case study findings.  Certain type of data
in a case, such as statistical data, may be tested for its validity or variance.
Other quantitative data such as independent and dependent variables may be
analysed for their relationship.  While time series data may be analysed for its
trend  quantitative data however, may require contextually innovative ideas for
interpreting it.  The nature of relationship between data such as ‘positive’ and
‘negative’ perhaps in one criterion and another would probably be in terms of
its effects on the other such as sequential, circular, constant and temporal.
For the purpose of data collection and analysis Yin proposes two alternative strategies
namely the strategy of relying on theoretical propositions and the strategy for developing
a case description.  The final part of the process is to prepare the report as the end
product of the research.  Thus produced report depicts the picture to the audiences
or readers the contributions of the researcher to the field.
14.4.1
Selection of an Object for a Case Study: Essential Precautions
It is known that, a case refers to a unit of study.  Unit is understood to be a family
or social group, a class of persons, a set of relationships or processes.  There are
some essential precautions to be taken while choosing the object for case study:

Selection of typical and representative unit;

Identification of situations and problems;

Time to be covered-the phase of life cycle;

Unitary character of the unit-breadth of data, levels of data, use of indices and
types;

Quality of data;

Availability of data and its reliability;

Cost to be incurred;
