231
Case Study
14.3 RESEARCH PROBLEM APPROPRIATE FOR
A CASE STUDY
Case studies in library and information science cover the varied category of library
users, library personnel, institutional libraries like academic, research, and  public
libraries including national and children libraries.  It is to be clearly understood that
case studies allow close examination of unique problems of individual or group
situations-which other methods do not readily permit.  Library is a social institution
with the committed societal responsibility.  Case study approach to investigate related
problems –that is, their social control, performance, and impact on society-is the
appropriate approach.  Number of researchers in the subject have employed case
studies approach and achieved varying degree of success.
According to Busha and Harter, the case study is particularly suitable for gathering
extensive data about a single research object and this allows a concentrated attention
on a single phenomenon and the utilisation of a wide array of data gathering methods.
Sometimes questionnaire, schedule and interviews including observation methods are
used to gather the varied data in case studies. Case studies are also useful in studying
the institution like University library, assessing the contributions of the persons to the
growth and development of the library, also the mechanisms devised to maximise the
use of collected resources.
Case study method is suitable to tackle the research question calling for a response
to ‘how’ and ‘why’.  And also considered appropriate if the research focuses on
contemporary issues.  In library and information science the most important current
issues that are amenable to case study research are:

Library Automation;

Impact of IT on Library and Information Services;

Performance of Library Consortia;

Growth and Development of INFLIBNET ;

Evolution of Library Professionals from Gatekeeper to Gateways;

Growth and Development of Information Skills; and

Information Literacy in the Information Society etc.,
Further, case study like other research strategies can be applied in all phases of
research and for all purposes of exploring, describing and explaining.
Case Study serves a dual purpose.  While intensive investigation of a single case is
often made for the purpose of increasing general knowledge of a given area, perhaps,
more often than not, it is carried out with the ultimate purpose of making a practical
improvement in the specific instance examined and only incidentally it contributes to
the general knowledge. As a research method, it is examined with respect to the way
in which it can help to solve scientific problems.
14.4
RESEARCH DESIGN IN CASE STUDY
The successful conduct of case study research is mainly based on the clear research
design. As we know the research design is an action plan or a ‘blueprint’ of research
that guides the researcher to proceed smoothly and produce the expected results.  It
also helps to connect the empirical data to research questions and ultimately to its
