228
Research Methods
an insightful explanation about a phenomenon that other methods will find difficult to
match.  However it is often talked that the potential of case study has been over
shadowed by lack of validity, reliability and generalisability.  This method is also
considered as a diagnostic study oriented towards finding out what is happening and
why is it happening and what can be done about it.  Further it enables to determine
social process revealing the complexity of factors and indicate their sequence along
with their inter-relationships.
14.2
CASE STUDY
14.2.1
Definition
Charles H Cooley says that ‘Case study deepens perception and gives a clear insight
into life.’  Pauline Young opines that “it is a method of exploring and analyzing the
life of a social unit-be it a person, a family, an institution, cultural group or even an
entire community.”  Goode and Hatt say “Case Study is a way of organizing social
data so as to preserve the unitary character of social object being studied.”  According
to F.L. Whitney, “Case study is a complete analysis and report of the status of an
individual subject with respect as a rule to specific phases of his total personality.”
Another social scientist compares the case study as equivalent of the spotlight or the
microscope that takes, as its subject, one or more selected examples of a social
entity such as organisations, work team, events, and roles or relationships.  Each
case is studied using a variety of data collection techniques such as analysis of
administrative records and documents, in-depth interviews, structured interviews etc.
The definitions stated above lead to suggest that the case study attempts to explain
holistically the dynamics of certain historical periods of a particular social unit.  Case
studies are also useful in formulation of policies and procedures including planning for
the enterprises, service sectors and organisations.  Case study as a research strategy
is considered as a vehicle in providing rich description of events from more than one
perspective which other research strategy such as survey or experiment cannot
possibly provide.
Library and information science like other disciplines of social sciences is having
number of examples of case studies.  The purpose of case studies on individuals and
institutions is almost invariably fact finding.  Normally case studies are helpful in
providing the solutions to management problems and enable the researcher in planning
new information services or remodeling the earlier ones.
14.2.2
Characteristics
Some of the very important characteristics of the case study method are listed below:

Case study is a deep, detailed and intensive study of a social unit;

It is a method of qualitative analysis;

It is a comprehensive study;

In this study all the variables and traits are linked with one another;

In case study, there are changes for wide variety of units to be selected;

It preserves wholeness of the units i.e. it is an approach which views any social
unit as a whole;

In case study complex factors are studied; and

Traits are the subject matter of the study.
